>> Scott Moss: This was awesome.
So let's just walk through how I did it.
So, if we look at the query,
let's just break it down very quick.
So one, we have this project
query which is a top level query.
Takes an input, and
its type is project input, and
then it has this property called tasks.
And if we look at it,
we can see that on a project type,
it has a field called tasks,
which is a non-null array of tasks.
What that means is,
there always has to be an array there,
that exclamation on
the outside of the array.
If there's an exclamation
on the inside of the array,
That means that the array can't be empty.
But there's probably a chance where you
will have a project and no tasks, but
you should always have an array at least.
That's what that means.
So it should be non null tasks.
So we need to resolve that.
And then if we look on the task
itself it has a project field.
So if you look task, it has a project
field whose type is project.
So if you did some detective work,
you might have went into.
I'm in the wrong repo.
You might have went into, there we go.
You might have went into
the models inside of API.
And you will look at the model and like,
what if the model already had it there.
Well, the project model doesn't
have a task array here so
you couldn't just get it from
the database from the project model.
You couldn't just query the project and
also the task will be there.
So you can't do that.
So you might have checked the task
model to see if it has a project on it.
Kind of, it has a project, but if you know
Mongoose, you know that this is just an ID
that's referencing a project, but
it's not the actual full project.
So it's kinda there, but not really.
So that's all we have, so we couldn't do
it the shortcut way where we would just
pass graph key will, the exact
object with the exact fields on it from
the database and it will just work.
Because our database isn't modeled exactly
the same shape as our graph field
types are, so this wouldn't work.
So this is an indication that we will
have to write custom resolvers and
also I told you,
you have to write custom resolvers, so.
If you just wanted to know why,
that's how you know why.
The database schema doesn't
match with the GraphQL schema.
So there's some virtualizing going on
with GraphQL that you've got to do.
All right so
let's hop on the project one first.
>> Scott Moss: And basically for
tasks here, one thing to know so
remember the task property
belongs to the project type.
So therefore I should write
the task field on the top
level project type here
inside of our resolvers.
So for task, because this is
going to be a nested line and
we know it's nested because we'll look at
the query tasks is underneath project, so
therefore project will be executed first.
The results of that
will be passed to task.
So that's how I know,
inside of this resolver,
I'll have access to whatever this returns.
Does that make sense?
Whatever this field returns will
be the root value for this.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's how I have it here.
And this is why I said it
really depends on the query.
It doesn't depend on you,
it depends on the query, right.
So because this was queried secondly,
I have the project, I have the args.
The args here in this case would be
any args that were passed to task,
which are none, and then context.
So basically here I'm just using the task
model on the context to find any task
that has a project ID of
the given resolve project and
that's how I get an array of tasks.
Did anybody do this differently?
No, I was going to say, I want to know.
That's crazy.
That'd be dope.
Yeah so that's how I got task.
And then for the task models itself.
There's a couple things here.
So I have this thing called projects and
this other one I didn't say, parentTask.
And this one's like, remember I
said there's Easter eggs in there?
This is the Easter egg.
But you didn't have to do this one.
So for project, it's very similar.
So project, this is not the same
project as this project.
So that can be really confusing.
This is not the same project.
This project is a field on the query.
And it takes this separate
input with these types.
This project is a field on a test and
it has separate association.
So this project is not
the same as this project.
They're both called project but
they're not the same.
So that can get really confusing and
the way you would know that is
because we know that we cannot ask for
fields on a type if we didn't
describe it in our schema.
So all we gotta do is go look at that
source of truth, which is our schema.
In this case, it will be our task schema.
And we can see that on a task type,
there's a project, and
it's type is project.
That's the project we're referencing,
we're referencing this one.
Completely different project, although
they both return the project type.
So again, very confusing, but
they belong to two different places.
One belongs to a query,
the other belongs to a task.
They both return the same type.
But when executed when you
give it a different context,
they will definitely return
a different object of the same type.
>> Student: So then does that mean if I
create another nested task in project,
it would be a new instance of a project so
then if we continue to do that,
it would effectively
de-DOS your graph server?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, correct, yes.
>> Student: And
what would a solution be to that?
>> Scott Moss: We are gonna get to that.
Yeah, we talked a little about that
them with the inflow object, but yeah,
there's a lot of ways around that.
So yeah, you would definitely d-dos
yourself, I've done that a lot.
A lot, like I was trying to test
caching and stuff like that.
So the way you'd do that, the solution for
that project, or the task,
is basically we know that if
you go look at a project model,
again there is nothing on here that
indicates anything with a task.
The relationship is not
bound on this model.
So there's nothing we can do here as
far as creating a project to figure out
what tasks are associated
with the project.
But we do know that
tasks have project IDs.
And we do know that we are,
we could use the project ID on
a task to find the actual project.
So that's what we do here.
So we just say, look at the project model,
find one by the ID of the one that this
task is referencing, and that will give us
back our task, or I'm sorry, our project.
Did anybody do this differently?
>> Scott Moss: There is actually
another way to do this differently but
it's more of a Mongo thing.
That's called population.
If anybody knows what
population is in Mongo,
it's basically like
join tables at runtime.
If you use SQL you do a join table,
it's like that but
virtual, it's like a virtual thing.
It's complicated, but yeah,
you could have done that here versus
doing this because you could
actually just populate this ID.
You can populate this ID and
Mongo will actually give you,
it'll go do the query for you,
and give you back the project.
So you could have done that as well,
but that's a little more advanced,
as far as the Mongo side.
This one works effectively the same
until we get into optimizations.
Cool, any questions on this solution?
Or anything with resolvers and
how they would work.
No, okay, the parent task one,
that one's there.
If you go look at the task GraphQO,
you'll notice some crazy stuff in here.
One, there's all these other fields like
repo and asset URL, we'll get to that.
But there is a parent task
which is an optional task, and
this is because tasks can
belong to other tasks.
So if you were to make
a task with a mutation and
you were to give it a parent task ID
it would save that in the database and
when you go query it later,
you can say, who is your parent?
This is the resolver that resolves that.
So you could imagine you would have
a query that would look like [LAUGH]
it would be ridiculous but
you could do something like this.
>> Scott Moss: Right, and
it would just go on, and on, and on.
And then just to make it worse,
you throw a project in there.
Put some more tasks, and
they got parent tasks, and
they have tasks, but yeah,
you can imagine it would just be bad.
So if you did the math on how many queries
would run there if you had like ten tasks,
it would be well over 100, way over 100.
So yeah, just,
this is where it gets dangerous.
So the flexibility can come back and
hurt you for sure.